let's make bangers and mash and we'll go
over a couple of you know basic sauce
making principles here we have a nice
beef soup bone and it's been roasting in
my cast-iron pan here's its little
brother shorter fatter and both roasting
in the cast iron pan and now that
they're caramelized I'm going to add in
onion carrot lots of garlic celery some
bay leaf and I'm going to move it all
around get all that fat coating it
because there's a lot of fat that's come
off of these bones and i want to quote
these vegetables in that fat because
that's going to help them to brown going
in the oven notice that they're kind of
cut into julienne and you know if you're
making a big batch of veal stock you're
not going to cut them that way because
they're going to burn very quickly but I
want this to go fast now I'm gonna work
it I'm going to watch it I want it to
caramelize quickly you see it's already
really cooked down and the sugars are
coming out of it it's beginning to
caramelize I moved it around I'm putting
it back in the oven I want to brown this
quickly because I'm making a small batch
and once I get the color I want I'm
going to use these these ingredients to
build a sauce basically it's going to be
my gravy also unlike a veal stock I'm
actually going to keep these vegetables
in the sauce it'll push them right
through my food mill and make a rustic
gravy you'll see here I'm cooking them
down further this now that I'm I'm now
cooking them on top of the stove at a
medium heat just cooking them down
cooking them down notice how brown and
caramelized they are this is a lot of
flavor here I'll begin to deglaze with
just water i'm not even using stock it's
just water i added butter into this big
sauce pot and now i'm going to great
potato into that butter and this is
going to be my roux it's not a root a
roux is actually butter and flour but
i'm going to use that potato mixture to
thicken my gravy here's some potatoes
this is going to be our mash I'm baking
them off i'm not going to boil them i'm
not a big fan of boiled potatoes for
mashed potato I like to bake them you
get a lot
more flavor notice our potato that's in
our sauce pot starting to brown nicely
we're starting to sort of sizzle and
caramelize the potato and we're still
going to have the starchiness which is
going to thicken the sauce add all the
ingredients in its going to begin to
thicken right away look at out dark and
tasty looking at is you've got to really
work those potatoes off the bottom or
eventually they will begin to burn
continue to add a little bit of water
just to deglaze the pan and you know the
bones aren't really submerged but they
will be almost and we'll keep on cooking
them and all that nice tasty marrow
that's in them is going to come out
notice it's beginning to come out now
that's going to add a ton of flavor to
this sauce I'm boiling it pretty hard
because I don't mind if it's foggy you
know if you're making classic sauces you
don't to boil things hard because you
don't want them to be foggy you want
them to be sort of transparent it's not
a problem here we're pushing all these
vegetables to the food mill so they can
be as foggy as can be and I'm cooking it
hard and fast to get the job done I
browned off my sausage in the meantime
bangers and mash these are bangers
though like they're not classic English
bangers I'm just using any sausage I've
got some bratwurst sausages and I've got
some various different you know mild
italian sausages their sausages are
inexpensive for the most part they ought
to be i wouldn't pay very much money for
sausages because basically sausages are
a great way for butchers to utilize
scrap and you ought to utilize your
scrap at home to push my baked potatoes
through my food mill did not wash it and
now i'm going to put my gravy through
the food mill not on top of the potatoes
right away though into a different pot
but i don't mind a little bit of
residual mashed potato hanging around on
that food mill because it's just going
to help thicken the gravy and notice how
this machine works this food mill I use
it quite a lot for sauces and for mashed
potato and various things stalks it
pushes there's a little paddle which
pushes the liquid and the saw
leads down through a fine sort of
strainer and basically makes it makes
the mixture smooth and it's going to
allow us to hold on to all those lovely
vegetables which we browned off
originally and it's going to make the
sauce quite rich and unique actually
it's going to be our gravy so we're
going to serve our sausages our bangers
on top of the mash with our lovely gravy
simple but super thrifty and extremely
tasty you can't go wrong with this for
an easy dinner for you and your loved
ones and here's a nice little mini
version of it if you have a little
cocktail party a slice of sausage on a
little baguette with a tiny quenelle of
potato on top and a little bit of gravy
great little cannon pay for your
cocktail party